==========https://www.astrazeneca.com/country-sites/singapore.html===========
<<h1>>
 astrazeneca singapore
<<p>>
click ‘cancel’ to return to astrazeneca’s site or ‘continue’ to proceed.
you are now leaving astrazeneca.com
access 360 is a patient assistance program should patients require help with paying for selected astrazeneca medicines.
click here to learn more.
the team contributed to the sustainability front of #cancercangive and to protect singapore’s marine environment while commemorating world water day.
as part of our efforts in driving sustainability, az singapore is collaborating with lions clubs of singapore to organize a fundraiser by collecting old and new clothing items.
funds raised from these clothes will contribute towards a #onemilliontrees movement whereby 300 trees are targeted to be planted over 4 months in parks allocated by nparks.
astrazeneca provides this link as a service to website visitors.
astrazeneca is not responsible for the privacy policy of any third party websites.
we encourage you to read the privacy policy of every website you visit.
“az is not just a place of work, it is also a space where i have found some close friends with similar interests.
it has given me a space to explore my creative side apart from my usual line of work, which has given me more exposure and opportunities to interact with other employees.
it has truly been an honor to be in az and makes me proud to know that i indeed work in a great place!”, employee from az singapore
© astrazeneca 2021
leaders from mcdonald's, astrazeneca, nomura, and dell advocate mental wellbeing & empathy at the workplace (human resources online)
you have selected a link that will take you to a site maintained by a third party who is solely responsible for its contents.
az singapore collaborated with waterways watch society in a successful waterway clean-up alongside friends from cancer can give, pink spartans, singapore cancer society, national cancer centre singapore, british high commission and swedish chamber of commerce.
important notice for users you are about to access astrazeneca historic archive material.
any reference in these archives to astrazeneca products or their uses may not reflect current medical knowledge and should not be used as a source of information on the present product label, efficacy data or safety data.
please refer to your approved national product label (smpc) for current product information.
i have read this warning and will not be using any of the contained product information for clinical purposes.
astrazeneca singapore is committed to create a healthy and safe working environment that are conducive for a thriving workforce and we strive to maintain good work–life integration.
click on the links below for the external feature of our efforts in employee wellness.
this website is intended for people seeking information on astrazeneca's worldwide business.
our country sites can be located in the az network.
veeva id: z4-25396date of next review: august 2022
cancer can give is a movement encouraging the active participation of cancer survivors to contribute back to society, leaving a statement that they are equals to any other individual and do not need pity.
click here to learn more.
enough is enough.
just what does it take to break mental health stigma at the workplace (today)
beyond sugar leverages technology to connect the doctor and patient to provide efficient authentic information, to better diagnose and thereby better treat patients with dia betes.
click here to learn more.
beat the asthma blues is a campaign battling the misconception that the blue inhaler is the best treatment for asthma.
global guidelines now recommend anti-inflammatory preventer treatment for all asthma patients, targeting the underlying cause of asthma.
click here to learn more.
veeva id: z4-25396date of next review: august 2022


==========https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-england-tyne-58330796===========
<<h1>>
lisa shaw: presenter's death due to complications of covid vaccine
<<p>>
"the death of our beloved lisa has left a terrible void in our family and in our lives.
china sends 38 planes into defence zone - taiwan
vaccine role in bbc presenter's death to be probed
medicines and healthcare products regulatory agency
what happens to your body in extreme heat?
dr johnson said doctors were in a daily conference with a national panel about vaccine-induced thrombotic thrombocytopenia, the condition ms shaw was believed to be suffering from.
after the hearing, ms shaw's family said in a statement: "this is another difficult day in what has been a devastating time for us.
dr tuomo polvikoski, a consultant neuro-pathologist who examined ms shaw after her death, said given her history of being fit and healthy with no medical problems, it was "surprising" she died of blood clots and bleeding in the brain.
the coroner said: "lisa died due to complications of an astrazeneca covid vaccination."
squid game: how one netflix show gripped the world
he said "timewise" it "seems most likely" her death was "indeed vaccine induced".
crossbows and replica weapons stolen in raid on east durham business
allo allo star vicki michelle delights at discovering rene's café in tynemouth
uk military to begin delivering petrol to garages
how china's crackdowns are impacting business
dubai expects 25 million visitors to world expo.
videodubai expects 25 million visitors to world expo
china sends 38 planes into defence zone - taiwan2
kilogram of nails found in man's stomach3
lavish russian wedding for tsar's descendant9
military to deliver petrol to garages from monday5
on 13 may she was taken by ambulance to university hospital of north durham after having a headache for several days.
the clots are considered extremely rare - there have been 417 reported cases and 72 deaths - after 24.8 million first doses and 23.9 million second doses of the astrazeneca vaccine in the uk.
people are vaccinated, so why so many covid cases?
charity launched in bbc presenter's memory
train station adopted by community groups
© 2021 bbc.
the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites.
read about our approach to external linking.
but on the evening of 16 may ms shaw said the headaches were worse and she had difficulty speaking.
tests were carried out and blood clots were found in her brain, prompting her to be moved to the neurology specialist unit at newcastle's royal victoria infirmary (rvi).
dr christopher johnson, a consultant in anaesthetics and intensive care at the rvi, said ms shaw had been conscious for several days and had been treated for the clots with drugs which seemed to be successful.
scans showed she had suffered a haemorrhage in the brain and after her condition deteriorated, part of her skull was removed to try and relieve the pressure inside her head.
striking pictures from around the world this week8
"lisa got all the treatments that were recommended in the order they were recommended," he said.
can social media help solve the gabby petito case?
videocan social media help solve the gabby petito case?
have you been getting these songs wrong?
stamp duty holiday: success or failure?
lisa shaw, who worked for bbc radio newcastle, died at the age of 44 in may after developing headaches a week after getting her first dose of the vaccine.
ms dilks said the condition was "very rare" but agreed with dr polvikoski's findings.
covid vaccines and rare clots - what do we know?
teen charged with murder over esso petrol station death
newcastle coroner karen dilks heard ms shaw suffered blood clots in the brain which ultimately led to her death.
autism charity appeals for unwanted apples for training scheme at farm
ms dilks said ms shaw was previously fit and well but concluded that it was "clearly established" that her death was due to a very rare "vaccine-induced thrombotic thrombocytopenia", a condition which leads to swelling and bleeding of the brain.
the inquest heard the condition linked to the oxford-astrazeneca vaccine was very rare.
alex jones loses case over sandy hook false claims4
pill halves risk of covid hospitalisation in trial7
'bad bank' to clean up india's $27bn debt mountain
is the oxford-astrazeneca vaccine safe?
australia to end strict covid travel ban6
asked if he would have changed the treatments given to ms shaw, he said: "no."
feeling hot
haunting survivors' memories shake paris terror trial
lyrics quiz
the surprise announcement has fuelled speculation that his daughter will run for president next year.
"the benefits of the covid-19 vaccine astrazeneca continue to outweigh the risks for most people," she said.
her condition continued to worsen and despite more surgery and treatments, she died on 21 may.
public health england
department of health and social care
information about bbc links to other news sites
"if we had the same presentation tomorrow we would do the same thing."
the medicines and healthcare products regulatory agency's chief safety officer, dr alison cave, said it would be "reviewing" the coroner's verdict.
can the us tackle soaring meat prices?
"it is therefore still vitally important that people come forward for their vaccination and for their second dose when invited to do so."
dr johnson said the national institute for health and care excellence (nice) published guidelines on how to treat the condition in july which matched the treatment ms shaw received.
lisa shaw death: 'give people choice over type of covid jab'
philippines' duterte says he will quit politics1
in a statement, dr john holmes who treated her said she complained of having a "severe headache shooting and stabbing" across her forehead and behind her eyes.
husband calls for jab choice after presenter's death
"she truly was the most wonderful wife, mum, daughter, sister and friend."
philippines' duterte says he will quit politics
primark to launch new homeware outlet in newcastle as part of national expansion involving 25 stores
a radio presenter died due to complications from the astrazeneca covid-19 vaccine, a coroner has found.
scandal-hit ozy media to shut down10
bbc radio newcastle presenter lisa shaw dies at 44
ms shaw, a mother of one from consett, received her first dose of the vaccine on 29 april.
the ex-cricketer batting up a political storm
follow bbc north east & cumbria on twitter, facebook and instagram.
send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk.


==========https://www.newscientist.com/article/2237475-covid-19-news-study-finds-benefits-of-teen-vaccination-outweigh-risks/===========
<<h1>>
covid-19 news: flu and covid vaccines can be given at the same time
<<p>>
the us centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) has endorsed booster vaccines for people aged 65 and over and those with underlying health conditions, following the authorisation from the food and drug administration on wednesday.
the cdc’s panel of advisers declined to support booster vaccines for people in jobs with a high risk of exposure to the virus, such as healthcare workers, but cdc director rochelle walensky decided to include this category in the agency’s recommendation.
the advice applies to people who have already had two doses of pfizer/biontech covid-19 vaccine at least six months ago.
sign up to read our regular email newsletters
more on these topics:
the covid-19 pandemic has led to the biggest fall in life expectancy in western europe since the second world war, researchers have found.
the study, published in the international journal of epidemiology, included data from 29 countries, 22 of which saw a drop in life expectancy that was greater than half a year in 2020.
the effects were larger for men than women in most countries.
men in the us saw the biggest fall, with 2.2 years taken off their life expectancy in 2020 compared with 2019.
a mother breastfeeding her son.cavan images / alamy
the benefits of offering two doses of covid-19 vaccine to all children aged 12 to 17 in england clearly outweigh the risks given the current high case rates, according to a new analysis.
children aged 12 to 15 are currently being offered only one dose of covid-19 vaccine unless they are considered high risk.
a student receives the pfizer-biontech covid-19 vaccine.ian forsyth/getty images
pupils raise their hands in a lesson as they return to school.anthony devlin/getty images
covid-19: the story of a pandemic
researchers estimated the covid-19 hospital admissions and deaths, plus cases of long covid, that would be prevented over four months by fully vaccinating all children in this age group.
on 15 september, the case rate among 10 to 19-year-olds in england stood at 680 cases per 100,000.
if the rate rises to 1000 per 100,000, vaccination could avert 4420 hospital admissions and 36 deaths over a 16-week period, the study estimated.
at a lower case rate of 50 per 100,000, vaccination could avert 70 admissions and two deaths over the same period.
survey of children in england finds younger ages more hesitant about vaccination
one group received their second dose of the covid-19 vaccine and the flu vaccine at their first study visit, then a placebo at their second visit.
a second group received their second dose of the covid-19 vaccine and a placebo at their first visit and then the flu vaccine at their second visit.
latest on coronavirus from new scientist
the rules of contagion is about the new science of contagion and the surprising ways it shapes our lives and behaviour.
the author, adam kucharski, is an epidemiologist at the london school of hygiene and tropical medicine, uk, and in the book he examines how diseases spread and why they stop.
the us will donate 500 million more covid-19 vaccines to other countries, president joe biden has announced at a virtual summit on the pandemic, bringing the country’s total donations to over 1 billion doses.
delivery of the new tranche will begin in january.
at a united nations general assembly meeting yesterday, leaders from developing nations including the philippines, peru and ghana condemned wealthier nations for failing to share vaccines equitably.
ben hasty/medianews group/reading eagle via getty images
attempts to estimate the prevalence of long covid have produced widely varying results, depending on how the condition is defined and measured.
recent figures from the uk office for national statistics suggested that 11.7 per cent of people who tested positive for covid-19 described themselves as experiencing long covid 12 weeks after infection, but only 3 per cent experienced symptoms continuously for at least 12 weeks.
hugh hastings/getty images
panorama: the race for a vaccine is a bbc documentary about the inside story of the development of the oxford/astrazeneca vaccine against covid-19.
these symptoms are not necessarily related to covid-19, but the study compared their prevalence in people recovering from covid-19 and in people who’d had influenza, and found that, together, a set of 9 symptoms were 1.5 times more common after covid-19 than after the flu.
long covid symptoms were slightly more common in women than in men, and more common in those who had been hospitalised.
the survey found that the majority of youngsters who said they were hesitant about getting the vaccine were still undecided.
“that is a huge opportunity for us, but it also suggests that there is risk,” said russell viner, a study author from ucl.
“young people are potentially vulnerable to those pushing views that are very strongly opposed to vaccination.”
vaccines for flu and covid-19 can safely be given at same appointment
see previous updates from june to july 2021, may 2021, april-march 2021, february 2021, january 2021, november/december 2020, and march to november 2020.
covid-19 vaccines have prevented 123,100 deaths in england, according to new estimates.
the figures, which have been calculated by public health england and the university of cambridge, cover the period up to 17 september.
previous estimates had put the number at 112,300 deaths.
around 23.9 million infections have also been prevented by the vaccine rollout, along with 230,800 hospital admissions among people aged 45 and over.
more than 89 per cent of all people aged 16 and over in england have now received at least one dose of vaccine, while nearly 82 per cent are fully vaccinated.
deaths from covid-19 lead to drop in life expectancy for boys born in uk
younger children appear to be less willing to have a covid-19 vaccination than older teenagers, according to a survey of more than 27,000 students aged between nine and 18 in england.
overall, half the respondents said they were willing to have a coronavirus vaccination, 37 per cent said they were undecided and 13 per cent said they wanted to opt out.
however, just over a third of nine-year-olds said they are willing to have a covid-19 jab, compared with 51 per cent of 13-year-olds and 78 per cent of 17-year-olds.
the johnson & johnson “single-dose” covid-19 vaccine is more effective after two doses, the firm said yesterday.
a second dose of the jab given eight weeks after the first led to people being 94 per cent less likely to get a symptomatic infection compared with those who were unvaccinated, in a us trial.
just one dose was 66 per cent effective in the first month after vaccination.
giving the second dose six months after the first led to an even higher rise in antibodies.
breastfeeding women who have had covid-19 secrete neutralising antibodies against the virus into their breast milk for up to 10 months after infection, according to research presented at a conference.
rebecca powell at mount sinai hospital in new york and her colleagues analysed breast milk samples from 75 women who had recovered from a covid-19 infection.
they found that 88 per cent of the samples contained antibodies against the sars-cov-2 virus, and in most cases they were capable of neutralising the virus.
australian authorities have announced plans to lift restrictions gradually in sydney, which has been in lockdown since june.
restaurants, retail stores and gyms can begin to reopen on 11 october, but only people who are fully vaccinated will be allowed to resume shopping, eating out, and some other activities.
around 60 per cent of people aged 16 and over are currently fully vaccinated in the state of new south wales.
vaccination strategy: prioritising people of colour for the covid-19 vaccines when they were in short supply would have prevented more deaths than rolling out the vaccine purely by age groups, a us modelling study suggests.
glass vials containing the biontech, pfizer vaccine.ben hasty/medianews group/reading eagle via getty images
“this analysis shows that, on clinical risks alone, vaccination is warranted for 12 to 17-year-olds in england,” said deepti gurdasani of queen mary university of london, lead author of the study.
“while we wait to understand the long-term effects of covid-19 on children, the precautionary principle advocates for protecting all children from exposure to this virus and vaccination is a crucial part of that protection.”
a teenager receives the pfizer-biontech covid-19 vaccine.
smokers are 80 per cent more likely to be admitted to hospital and significantly more likely to die from covid-19 than non-smokers, new research shows.
the study, published in the journal thorax, is the first of its kind to look at both observational and genetic data on smoking and coronavirus.
it included 421,469 participants in the uk biobank study, with outcome data up to 18 august 2020.
the results showed that, compared with never-smokers, current smokers were twice as likely to die with covid-19 if they smoked one to nine cigarettes a day, while those smoking 10 to 19 cigarettes a day were almost six times more likely to die.
people who smoked more than 20 a day were over six times more likely to die compared to people who had never smoked.
about 1.2 per cent of school children in england were absent due to confirmed or suspected covid-19 on 16 september, according to new figures from the uk’s department for education.
this compares with 1.0 per cent in july before schools closed for the summer holidays.
most schools reopened in september having removed some social distancing restrictions, including mask-wearing and keeping children within “bubbles” – small groups usually consisting of one or a few classes.
under this system the whole bubble would bel sent home to isolate if one member tested positive.
now, under-18s do not have to stay at home and isolate if they have been in contact with someone who has tested positive – only if they themselves develop symptoms or have a positive test result.
more than one in a hundred school children in england have covid-19, but absences are lower than in july because whole classes no longer isolate
researchers say the results reinforce current coronavirus booster vaccine guidance in the uk, which is for both jabs to be given together where it is practically possible.
the scottish government will delay the enforcement of vaccine passports by two weeks, first minister nicola sturgeon has said, giving businesses until 18 october to comply with the new law.
people over 18 will have to show proof of vaccination to attend a nightclub or large event under the policy.
new scientist weekly features updates and analysis on the latest developments in the covid-19 pandemic.
our podcast sees expert journalists from the magazine discuss the biggest science stories to hit the headlines each week – from technology and space, to health and the environment.
the uk joint committee on vaccination and immunisation (jcvi) previously decided that, while the benefits of vaccination of children aged 12 to 15 do outweigh the risks, those benefits aren’t big enough to justify a vaccination programme for this age group.
however, it wasn’t in the jcvi’s remit to consider how vaccination of 12-to-15-year-olds would prevent school absences or curb the spread of the virus in communities.
taking factors like these into account, the uk’s chief medical officers recommended that 12-to-15-year-olds be offered a single dose of the vaccine.
vaccine passports would be required for those attending nightclubs, music venues, festivals and sports grounds in england under the government’s autumn and winter contingency plan b.
the proposed plan, published today, will only be introduced if the country faces a difficult winter with rising covid-19 cases in the colder months, the government said.
the government is asking for views from businesses, event organisers, and venue operators on its proposals by 12 october.
australia will relax its rules on international travel for citizens and permanent residents in november, having had severe restrictions in place since march 2020.
people will be allowed to leave the country once their state’s vaccination rate reaches 80 per cent, prime minister scott morrison has said.
on returning to australia, vaccinated residents will be allowed to quarantine at home for seven days instead of having to stay in a hotel for 14 days.
no timetable has been announced for opening the border to foreign travellers.
the jump is a bbc radio 4 series exploring how viruses can cross from animals into humans to cause pandemics.
the first episode examines the origins of the covid-19 pandemic.
covid-19 vaccines: everything you need to know about the leading shots
scotland’s newly launched vaccine passport app has been hit by technical problems.
from today, people attending large events and nightclubs will need to show proof they have had two doses of vaccine using the app before they are allowed in.
the nhs scotland covid status app was made available to download on apple and android devices on thursday afternoon.
but just hours after the app’s launch, comments circulating on social media suggested many users have been unable to register on it.
the scottish government said the large volume of people accessing the app at once could be a reason for the glitch.
us regulator authorises boosters for older people, but rejects broader rollout
belly mujinga: searching for the truth is a bbc panorama investigation of the death of transport worker belly mujinga from covid-19, following reports she had been coughed and spat on by a customer at london’s victoria station.
the immune responses to both the flu and covid-19 vaccine were preserved when given together, the results showed, and 97 per cent of participants said they would be willing to have two vaccines at the same appointment in the future.
dashboard: use our covid-19 dashboard to stay up to date with deaths, cases, and vaccination rates around the world.
what is covid-19?
people receiving a third dose of coronavirus vaccine experience similar rates of side effects to those receiving their second dose, according to the us centers for disease control and prevention.
out of 12,500 people who completed a survey, 79 per cent reported local reactions such as itching or pain at the injection site, while 74 per cent reported systemic reactions, which were mainly fatigue, muscle aches and headaches.
the rate of coronavirus transmission in the uk is currently thought to be highest among secondary school age children, with 2.8 per cent in this group testing positive in the most recent figures from the office for national statistics on 18 september.
neutralising antibodies in breast milk may protect infants from covid-19 infection
why is covid killing people of colour?
is a bbc documentary, which investigates what the high covid-19 death rates in ethnic minority patients reveal about health inequality in the uk.
jacob wackerhausen/getty images
glass vials containing the biontech, pfizer vaccine.
new travel rules for england that require travellers from some countries to quarantine even if they are fully vaccinated have sparked outrage and bewilderment, the guardian reports.
under the rules, travellers to england who have been fully vaccinated with oxford/astrazeneca, pfizer/biontech, moderna or janssen vaccines in the us, australia, new zealand, south korea or a european union country are exempt from quarantine, but people who received the same vaccines in other countries must quarantine for 10 days after arrival.
doctors and politicians from india, brazil and nigeria are among those who have expressed anger about the rules.
cavan images / alamy
some headteachers have reportedly been targeted by hoax letters with misinformation about the vaccine programme, which include a fake nhs logo and a “consent checklist” to share with students.
a school in ampthill, bedfordshire, has apologised for passing the letter on to parents in error.
the most common side effects were pain around the injection site and fatigue.
some covid-19 and flu vaccine combinations saw an increase in the number of people who reported at least one side effect, but the reactions were mostly mild or moderate, the research found.
pfizer had asked the food and drug administration (fda) to allow extra doses for all people aged 16 and over, but the fda panel concluded that there was insufficient evidence to support boosters for the wider population beyond high-risk groups.
a separate advisory committee for the centers for disease control and prevention, which determines us vaccine policy, is expected to issue guidance today which may include recommendations on which groups should qualify as high risk.
the us has already given extra vaccines to over 2 million people with compromised immune systems.
youtube says it will remove videos that contain misinformation about all vaccines, expanding its policies around health misinformation which had been strengthened during the coronavirus pandemic.
the google-owned video platform said its ban on covid-19 vaccine misinformation, which was introduced last year, has seen 130,000 videos removed so far as a result, but more scope is needed to clamp down on broader false claims about other vaccines appearing online.
under the new rules, any content which falsely alleges that any approved vaccine is dangerous and causes chronic health problems will be removed, as will videos that include misinformation about the content of vaccines.
the figures do not mean a baby born in 2018-2020 will live a shorter life, says pamela cobb from the ons centre for ageing and demography.
“to get a better estimate of this we need to consider how mortality and therefore life expectancy will improve into the future.
it will be several years before we understand the impact, if any, of coronavirus on this,” she says.
vaccination would avert between 8000 and 56,000 cases of long covid, the study suggests, assuming that between 2 and 14 per cent of teenagers with covid-19 go on to experience long covid.
the study will be published today in the journal of the royal society of medicine.
a mother breastfeeding her son.
over a third of people recovering from covid-19 have at least one long covid symptom between 3 and 6 months after infection, a study has found.
the finding is based on health records from over 270,000 people in the us.
the most common reported symptoms were anxiety or depression, in 15 per cent of participants who’d had covid-19, followed by abnormal breathing and abdominal symptoms, both seen in 8 per cent, and fatigue, in 6 per cent.
booster vaccines: the evidence on coronavirus booster shots isn’t definitive yet, but it suggests you really should get an extra vaccine dose if you are offered one.
coronavirus, explained on netflix is a short documentary series examining the coronavirus pandemic, the efforts to fight it and ways to manage its mental health toll.
“this is a really positive step which could mean fewer appointments for those who require both vaccines, reducing the burden on those who have underlying health conditions and would usually be offered the influenza vaccine,” said study author rajeka lazarus at university hospitals bristol and weston nhs foundation trust.
the results have been published as a preprint in the lancet.
 by michael le page , clare wilson , jessica hamzelou , sam wong , graham lawton , adam vaughan , conrad quilty-harper and layal liverpool
long covid: do i have it, how long will it last and can we treat it?
analysis supports vaccinating children aged 12 to 17
researchers are calling for more resources and information to be provided to communities and students to ensure young people know the covid-19 vaccine is safe.
they say health messaging about vaccine safety and its effects on children should be shared by trusted sources on social media.
the latest coronavirus news updated every day including coronavirus cases, the latest news, features and interviews from new scientist and essential information about the covid-19 pandemic
a member of the public receives a pfizer covid-19 vaccination.hugh hastings/getty images
ian forsyth/getty images
anthony devlin/getty images
young people who believe they have had covid-19 already were more likely to say they will opt out of having a vaccine, the survey found.
students who were more hesitant about getting the jab were also more likely to attend schools in deprived areas, report spending longer on social media, and say they feel as though they did not identify with their school community.
it is safe for people to get coronavirus and flu vaccines at the same time, a clinical trial has found.
the reported side effects were mainly mild to moderate and there were no negative impacts on the immune response to either vaccine when both were given on the same day, in different arms.
the findings, presented at the global breastfeeding and lactation symposium on 21 september, suggest that breastfeeding could help to protect babies from getting infected with covid-19.
this is known to be the case for other respiratory diseases such as influenza and pertussis.
while young children are at lower risk from severe covid-19 than adults, around one in 10 infants below the age of one require hospital care if they are infected.
antibodies extracted from breast milk could also be used as a therapy for adults with covid-19, powell told the guardian.
life expectancy for men in the uk has fallen for the first time in four decades, due to the impact of the covid-19 pandemic.
new figures from the office for national statistics (ons) suggest that a boy born between 2018 and 2020 is expected to live for 79 years, compared with 79.2 years for births between 2015 and 2017.
for women, life expectancy remains unchanged at 82.9 years.
the estimates are calculated based on current mortality rates, which were unusually high in 2020, especially for men.
the new york times is assessing the progress in development of potential drug treatments for covid-19, and ranking them for effectiveness and safety.
covid-19: the pandemic that never should have happened, and how to stop the next one by debora mackenzie is about how the pandemic happened and why it will happen again if we don’t do things differently in future.
a teenager receives the pfizer-biontech covid-19 vaccine.ian forsyth/getty images
pfizer and biontech have submitted trial data for their covid-19 vaccine in 5-to-11-year-olds to the us medicines regulator, and say they will make a formal request for emergency authorisation in coming weeks.
the new rules mean that while there is currently a higher rate of covid-19 infections among under-18s, fewer children have to miss school because of isolation rules.
the total rate of covid-19-related absences was 1.5 per cent on 16 september, compared with 14.3 per cent in july.
“these national figures mask some significant issues arising at a local level, and we already know of schools that are struggling to keep classes open due to outbreaks occurring,” paul whiteman, general secretary of the national association of head teachers told the guardian.
getty images
what’s the fairest way to share covid-19 vaccines around the world?
where did coronavirus come from?
and other covid-19 questions answered
other coronavirus news
a student receives the pfizer-biontech covid-19 vaccine.
the us medicines regulator has authorised coronavirus booster vaccines for people aged 65 and over, people at high risk of severe disease and those who are regularly exposed to the virus, such as healthcare workers.
the decision means that these groups can start to receive a third dose of pfizer/biontech vaccine 6 months after their second dose.
those who have had other vaccines will have to wait for further approvals.
pupils raise their hands in a lesson as they return to school.
australia will reopen its borders for international travel by christmas at the latest, the country’s tourism minister dan tehan said today.
meanwhile in the state of victoria, teachers and childcare workers have been told that they must be fully vaccinated against covid-19 before they return to work next month.
humans of covid-19 is a project highlighting the experiences of key workers on the frontline in the fight against coronavirus in the uk, through social media.
race against the virus: hunt for a vaccine is a channel 4 documentary which tells the story of the coronavirus pandemic through the eyes of the scientists on the frontline.
the survey was carried out in schools across berkshire, buckinghamshire, oxfordshire and merseyside between may and july this year by researchers at the university of oxford, university college london (ucl) and the university of cambridge.
the findings come after 12-to-15-year-olds in england and scotland last week started to get vaccinated.
a member of the public receives a pfizer covid-19 vaccination.
only 15 out of 54 african countries have met the goal of vaccinating 10 per cent of their population by the end of september, the world health organization has said.
just 2 per cent of the more than 6 billion vaccines given globally have been administered on the continent.
winter forecast: a government scientific advisory committee has said that the number of people in england admitted to hospital with the coronavirus could rise to between 2000 and 7000 a day over the next few months.
here’s why the predictions for winter are so bleak, despite high vaccination rates.
the uk government’s furlough scheme, which has helped pay the wages of 11.6 million workers since the start of the pandemic, is ending today.
nearly one million workers were expected to be still on the scheme at the end of september, according to the office for national statistics.
economists have predicted that the end of the scheme will lead to a rise in the rate of unemployment, which stood at 4.6 per cent last month.
the study also found that the majority of women who had the pfizer/biontech or moderna vaccines also had coronavirus-specific antibodies in their breast milk, but lower levels of antibodies were seen in milk from women who had the johnson & johnson vaccine.
this supports previous research suggesting that vaccinations for breastfeeding mothers can help to protect their babies from covid-19 infection, although this has not yet been demonstrated conclusively.
the study, involving 679 volunteers in england and wales, looked at two covid-19 and three flu vaccines, in six different combinations.
study participants were over the age of 18 and had already received one dose of either the pfizer/biontech or the oxford/astrazeneca jab, and were awaiting their second dose.


==========https://www.reuters.com/business/healthcare-pharmaceuticals/two-doses-pfizer-astrazeneca-shots-effective-against-delta-variant-study-finds-2021-07-21/===========
<<h1>>
two doses of pfizer, astrazeneca shots effective against delta variant: study
<<p>>
london, july 21 (reuters) - two doses of pfizer (pfe.n) or astrazeneca's (azn.l) covid-19 vaccine are nearly as effective against the highly transmissible delta coronavirus variant as they are against the previously dominant alpha variant, a study published on wednesday showed.
the study, published in the new england journal of medicine, confirms headline findings given by public health england in may about the efficacy of covid-19 vaccines made by pfizer-biontech and oxford-astrazeneca (azn.l), based on real-world data.
access to real-time, reference, and non-real time data in the cloud to power your enterprise.
canadian health officials said on friday data suggests reported cases of rare heart inflammation were relatively higher after moderna's covid-19 vaccine compared with the pfizer/biontech shots , .
information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface.
our standards: the thomson reuters trust principles.
subscribe for our daily curated newsletter to receive the latest exclusive reuters coverage delivered to your inbox.
reuters, the news and media division of thomson reuters, is the world’s largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every day.
reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers.
the full study published on wednesday found that one dose of pfizer's shot was 36% effective, and one dose of astrazeneca's vaccine was around 30% effective.
phe had previously said that a first dose of either vaccine was around 33% effective against symptomatic disease from the delta variant.
wednesday's study found that two doses of pfizer's shot was 88% effective at preventing symptomatic disease from the delta variant, compared to 93.7% against the alpha variant, broadly the same as previously reported.
build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology.
screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.
the most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs.
officials say vaccines are highly effective against the delta variant, now the dominant variant worldwide, though the study reiterated that one shot of the vaccines is not enough for high protection.
two shots of astrazeneca vaccine were 67% effective against the delta variant, up from 60% originally reported, and 74.5% effective against the alpha variant, compared to an original estimate of 66% effectiveness.
"our finding of reduced effectiveness after the first dose would support efforts to maximise vaccine uptake with two doses among vulnerable groups in the context of circulation of the delta variant," the authors of the study said.
all quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes.
see here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
© 2021 reuters.
all rights reserved
the industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals.
data from israel has estimated lower effectiveness of pfizer's shot against symptomatic disease, although protection against severe disease remains high.
"only modest differences in vaccine effectiveness were noted with the delta variant as compared with the alpha variant after the receipt of two vaccine doses," public health england researchers wrote in the study.


==========https://www.healthline.com/health/astrazeneca-vs-pfizer-vaccine===========
<<h1>>
astrazeneca vs. pfizer vaccine
<<p>>
after vaccination, it takes your body time to build up immunity.
this means that you’re considered to be fully vaccinated when it’s been at least 2 weeks since your second dose of either the pfizer-biontech or the astrazeneca vaccine.
you’re not considered immune right after your second dose.
a march 2021 study assessed protection against the b.1.1.7 variant in 8,534 individuals following a second dose of the astrazeneca vaccine or a control injection.
researchers found that:
some other findings in the study included:
no deaths from getting the vaccine or the placebo were reported during the trial.
research from the united kingdom has also found that the pfizer-biontech vaccine is effective against the b.1.1.7 and b.1.617.2 “delta” variants, finding the following efficacy:
a few examples of pfizer’s more well-known drugs or vaccines include:
researchers calculated vaccine efficacy 7 days after trial participants had received their second injections.
at this point, the efficacy of the pfizer-biontech vaccine was found to be 95 percent.
the clinical trial of the pfizer-biontech vaccine reported just 4 other serious but rare side effects related to the vaccine, including:
other countries, like the united kingdom and countries in the european union, also provide the pfizer-biontech and astrazeneca vaccines free of charge.
countries who participate in the covax program may also be able to provide you with one of these vaccines for free.
the pfizer-biontech vaccine is often referred to by other names in scientific literature, including:
despite the quick development of the covid-19 vaccine, no corners were cut.
the vaccines were rigorously tested to assess their safety and…
an eua is used by the fda to allow the use of unapproved medical products during a public health emergency, like a pandemic.
the fda must carefully review a product before granting an eua:
all vaccines can have side effects.
let’s look at the potential side effects of the pfizer-biontech and astrazeneca vaccines.
most side effects above are mild to moderate and go away in a few days.
as with the pfizer-biontech vaccine, it’s possible to experience a severe allergic reaction called anaphylaxis after receiving the astrazeneca vaccine.
now let’s look at some specific authorization details for these two vaccines.
additional authorizations or approvals may be added on an ongoing basis.
here’s how the astrazeneca vaccine works:
similar to many other covid-19 vaccines, the astrazeneca vaccine is given in two doses.
the second dose is given between 28 to 84 days (4 to 12 weeks) after the first dose.
these side effects are typically mild to moderate in intensity and go away in a few days.
systemic side effects like fever or aches and pains are more common after the second dose.
talk with a doctor if you have any questions or concerns related to covid-19 vaccination.
the efficacy of the pfizer-biontech vaccine was evaluated in a phase 3 clinical trial with 43,448 participants.
each participant was given two injections of either the vaccine or a placebo spaced 21 days (3 weeks) apart.
the department of health and human services office of inspector general says covid-19 scammers are using telemarketing calls, text messages, social…
all of the ingredients used in the pfizer-biontech vaccine are also listed in an fda fact sheet meant to be used by both people giving and receiving the vaccine.
let’s examine vaccine efficacy data from large-scale clinical trials for these two vaccines.
a july 2021 study from qatar looked at vaccine efficacy in both vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals with confirmed cases of covid-19.
at the time of the study, most covid-19 in qatar was due to either the b.1.1.7 or the b.1.351 variant.
during the pandemic, the federal government of the united states is providing authorized covid-19 vaccines free of charge.
this is regardless of a person’s immigration status or health insurance coverage.
because the astrazeneca vaccine isn’t yet authorized in the united states, it’s not included in this program.
but the pfizer-biontech vaccine is due to its emergency use authorization.
covid-19 vaccination will likely continue after the pandemic as either first-time vaccinations or booster shots.
this means that the vaccines may come at a higher cost since both are made by for-profit pharmaceutical companies.
a few examples of novel coronavirus variants include:
health officials and other experts have predicted that the pandemic will improve significantly by sometime next year.
experts say that although some…
other side effects are uncommon and affect about 1 in 100 people, including:
the efficacy of the astrazeneca vaccine was assessed in four clinical trials carried out in the uk, brazil, and south africa.
all four trials combined included 23,848 participants.
to be approved for large-scale use (even emergency use), a vaccine must be assessed by the fda as both safe and effective.
our brands
after reviewing the data on these clots, the ema determined that the health benefits of the astrazeneca vaccine outweighed the potential risks of tts.
the ema estimated that tts occurred in less than 1 in 10,000 people.
read on to learn how these two vaccines work, how effective they are, and other critical information you need to know if you’re deciding which one to get or simply want to learn more.
merck will seek emergency use authorization for its antiviral medication molnupiravir to treat covid-19 after a successful phase 3 clinical trial.
this includes people who have a weakened immune system or are pregnant or breastfeeding.
specific safety data for these populations is limited, but increasing evidence indicates that vaccination poses minimal risk.
if you go to get a covid-19 vaccine during the pandemic, you can’t be charged for:
a large number of variants of the new coronavirus have been detected so far.
some are considered “variants of concern” — this means that they may:
the covid-19 vaccine was developed in collaboration with the german biotechnology company biontech.
this collaboration came out of a previous agreement between the two companies to develop a flu vaccine using mrna technology.
astrazeneca developed their covid-19 vaccine in collaboration with scientists at the university of oxford.
that’s why you’ll sometimes see this vaccine referred to as the oxford/astrazeneca vaccine.
research into how effective the different covid-19 vaccines are against these variants is ongoing.
read on to learn what we know so far.
pfizer is an american pharmaceutical company headquartered in new york city.
they develop new drugs and vaccines for a variety of different health conditions.
similar to the pfizer-biontech vaccine, many countries around the world have either authorized or approved the az vaccine.
starting next year california will require eligible students to get vaccinated against covid-19.
viruses mutate constantly.
in many cases, mutations are harmful to the virus and prevent it from finishing its life cycle.
but in other cases, a new mutation can provide the virus with an advantage.
the same research from the united kingdom mentioned earlier also found that individuals that were fully vaccinated with the astrazeneca vaccine showed a vaccine efficacy of:
according to the world health organization (who), there are at least 13 different covid-19 vaccines currently in use around the world, including the pfizer-biontech vaccine and the astrazeneca vaccine — many countries across the world have authorized or approved one or both of these vaccines for use.
like the johnson & johnson vaccine approved for emergency use in the united states, the astrazeneca vaccine is also associated with a risk of a very rare clotting condition called thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome (tts).
the astrazeneca (az) vaccine is also known by several other names in scientific papers, including:
all vaccines come with some risks or potential side effects.
but the benefits of a vaccine must always outweigh its potential risks.
the covid-19 vaccine is free.
so why do some people still have questions?
astrazeneca is a british and swedish pharmaceutical company headquartered in cambridge, united kingdom.
their main therapy areas include oncology and conditions that impact the respiratory system, cardiovascular system, and kidneys.
the product summary for the astrazeneca vaccine classifies side effects into several categories.
researchers evaluated vaccine efficacy 14 days (2 weeks) after the second dose and found that:
once a vial is opened, it can be kept at room temperature for up to 6 hours.
it can no longer be injected after this period and must be discarded.
vaccination is a vital tool for stopping the spread of the novel coronavirus (sars-cov-2).
the astrazeneca vaccine isn’t authorized for emergency use in the united states and has yet to submit for an eua.
the mrna used in the vaccine makes the pfizer-biontech vaccine less stable in storage than other types of vaccines.
because of this, it needs to be kept at ultra-cold temperatures between -112°f (-80°c) to -76°f (-60°c) once it’s been prepared for injection.
some side effects are considered common and impact about 1 in 10 people who get the astrazeneca vaccine, like:
researchers found that the serum neutralized both the b.1.1.7 and the p.1 test viruses at a similar rate to the original strain of the novel coronavirus.
they also noted that neutralization of b.1.351 test viruses was lower but still robust.
the pfizer-biontech vaccine uses mrna technology that scientists have been working on for many years.
some of the earliest successful mrna vaccine clinical trial results were published in 2008.
neither vaccine is inherently better than the other.
but one may be safer for you or more easily available depending on your overall health and location.
the pfizer-biontech and az vaccines are both important tools for protecting you against covid-19 and ending the global pandemic.
the best vaccine to get is usually the one you can get as soon as possible.
the pfizer-biontech and astrazeneca covid-19 vaccines each work in different ways.
the pfizer-biontech vaccine uses mrna technology, while the astrazeneca vaccine uses an adenovirus vector.
the european medicines agency (ema) notes the following related to the safety of the astrazeneca vaccine:
covid-19 vaccines used in the united states, including the pfizer-biontech vaccine, are currently authorized under an emergency use authorization (eua).
euas are issued by the fda, but aren’t the same thing as full fda approval.
talk with a doctor if you’re unsure which one’s better or safer for you.
they’re an important resource for information and can cover various topics with you, like:
let’s take a closer look at the namesake companies who’ve produced the pfizer-biontech and astrazeneca vaccines.
a different march 2021 study looked into the efficacy of the az vaccine versus placebo against the b.1.351 variant in south africa.
vaccine efficacy 14 days after the second injection was found to be low, at about 21.9 percent overall for the b.1.351 variant in both people receiving the vaccine and those receiving the placebo.
 last medically reviewed on august 22, 2021
the fda authorized the pfizer-biontech vaccine for emergency use in individuals aged 16 and older on december 11, 2020.
it was also authorized on may 10, 2021 for use in adolescents between the ages of 12 and 15.
the astrazeneca vaccine is delivered using an adenovirus vector.
this is the same type of technology that the johnson & johnson covid-19 vaccine uses.
refer to the vaccine’s official summary of product characteristics to see the different ingredients used in the az vaccine and decide if you may have an allergy to one of its ingredients.
there are several side effects that are possible after receiving the pfizer-biontech vaccine, including:
the world health organization (who) has also listed the pfizer-biontech vaccine for emergency use.
many other countries worldwide have also either authorized or approved the vaccine:
in the clinical trials for the astrazeneca vaccine, two instances of severe side effects were found to be related to the vaccine, including:
to best protect yourself from covid-19 and stop the spread of the novel coronavirus, it’s important to get vaccinated.
the best vaccine to get is typically the one that’s the soonest available to you.
this type of vaccine uses a deactivated adenovirus that’s been modified to deliver the vaccine contents into a host cell.
once the contents enter the cell, the adenovirus breaks down.
this means that it can’t cause disease in humans or interact with our dna.
this vaccine is given in two doses.
the second dose is given 21 days (3 weeks) after the first dose.
experts remain concerned despite the fact new covid-19 cases as well as hospitalizations decreased this past week.
the vaccination rate also declined.
some other data that was reported from this clinical trial includes:
is it safe to exercise after the covid vaccine?
we've got the answer.
participants were given two injections of either the az vaccine or a control injection containing no protection against covid-19.
depending on the participant’s location, injections were spaced between 4 and 12 weeks apart.
an april 2021 study tested serum, the part of the blood containing antibodies, from people who’d been vaccinated with the pfizer-biontech vaccine against test viruses with spike proteins from different covid-19 variants.
vaccine efficacy is carefully reviewed by the food and drug administration (fda) when making the decision to grant emergency use authorization (eua).
both the pfizer and astrazeneca vaccines have been given eua in the united states and numerous other countries.
researchers found that the vaccine efficacy against these variants was quite high for people who were fully vaccinated with the pfizer-biontech vaccine:
anaphylaxis is a severe allergic reaction that’s a rare but serious side effect of the pfizer-biontech vaccine.
some symptoms of anaphylaxis to watch out for include:
shortly after this interim analysis was released, the national institute of allergy and infectious disease raised concerns about the data used for this calculation.
astrazeneca reviewed the data and corrected the vaccine efficacy to 76 percent.
the astrazeneca vaccine is stable at higher temperatures than the pfizer-biontech vaccine, able to be refrigerated between 35°f (2°c) and 46°f (8°c) rather than stored in an ultra-cold freezer.
if you live in a country where both the pfizer-biontech and az vaccines are authorized or approved, you may need to decide which one to get if both options are offered to you.
as you decide, you may want to consider the potential risks or side effects associated with each one.
some examples of astrazeneca products include:
on february 15, 2021, the who listed the two versions of the az vaccine for emergency use in adults aged 18 and over.
the astrazeneca vaccine has yet to be authorized for emergency use in the united states by the fda.
pfizer and biontech announced today that they have submitted initial data to the food and drug administration from their covid-19 vaccine trial in…
the pfizer-biontech vaccine works through the following steps:
the cdc states that those who have an underlying health condition can get a covid-19 vaccine as long as they haven’t had a previous serious allergic reaction to the vaccine or any of its ingredients.
the exact details of when the pandemic may end or what the costs of the vaccines may be have yet to be confirmed.
for example, you may have concerns about tts and choose to get the pfizer-biontech vaccine instead of the astrazeneca vaccine.
clinical trials of the astrazeneca vaccine are also underway in the united states, peru, and chile.
in late march 2021, astrazeneca announced that an interim analysis of 32,449 trial participants found that the vaccine had an efficacy of 79 percent.
additionally, one death reported in the vaccine group wasn’t found to be related to covid-19 or the astrazeneca vaccine.
once it’s been diluted and prepared for use, the vaccine remains stable at room temperature for up to 6 hours.
after this period ends, it must be discarded and can no longer be injected.
below, we’ll discuss the mechanisms used in each vaccine meant to help protect you from becoming ill with covid-19.


==========https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-021-02291-2===========
<<h1>>
covid vaccines and blood clots: what researchers know so far
<<p>>
then there’s the spike protein itself.
one team of researchers wondered whether the antibodies that bind to pf4 in people with vitt are an unintended by-product of the body’s immune response to spike.
but they found that the pf4 antibodies can’t bind to it, suggesting that they are not part of the immune response to the viral protein9.
you can also search for this author in pubmed  google scholar
kowarz, e. et al.
preprint at research square https://doi.org/10.21203/rs.3.rs-558954/v1 (2021).
scully, m. et al.
n. engl.
j. med.
384, 2202–2211 (2021).
even if the adenovirus is to blame, borad says he would not advocate that vaccine developers stop using adenoviruses in vaccines.
some adenoviruses could be engineered to reduce their negative charge, he says, and some are less negatively charged than others; the ad26 adenovirus used in the j&j covid-19 vaccine does not have as much of a charge as the chimpanzee virus, which might explain why vitt seems to be less common in recipients of the j&j vaccine.
and so far, no link to vitt has been reported for the sputnik v covid-19 vaccine, which uses both ad26 and another adenovirus called ad5 that has still less negative charge, he adds.
you have full access to this article via your institution.
in birmingham, nicolson has been working to develop more-specific approaches.
he has tested blood serum from people with vitt to see whether he can repurpose drugs developed for other conditions to treat it.
in particular, he is focusing on treatments that interfere with a protein on platelets, to see whether any drugs can prevent platelet activation and the cascade of events that leads to clots in vitt.
article  google scholar
othman, m., labelle, a., mazzetti, i., elbatarny, h. s. & lillicrap, d. blood 109, 2832–2839 (2007).
news explainer 17 sep 21
advertisement
there are reports that the teams behind the oxford–astrazeneca and j&j vaccines are working to develop safer adenoviral vectors, and marschalek says he would be surprised if companies abandoned adenoviral vectors altogether.
others agree.
“i think they are very popular and will remain popular,” says othman, citing the ease with which the vaccines can be produced and manipulated, and the wealth of data suggesting that, for most people, the vaccines are safe.
instead of abandoning them, she says, “we should study more about the immune responses to them.”
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-021-02291-2
dresden rossendorf, germany
platelets (white) are fragments of cells that encourage clots to form.credit: lennart nillson, boehringer iingelheim international
these antibodies can also bind to and activate platelets, priming them to clump together and trigger clotting.
the clots can clog up important blood vessels, and the condition can be fatal, although some treatments improve the chances of survival.
nicolson had been on call at the hospital all weekend, and had been looking forward to a rest on monday.
instead, he found himself rushing around to get consent to collect samples to study in the laboratory.
by the time he arrived at the second patient’s bedside, a third had been admitted.
baker, a. t. et al.
preprint at biorxiv https://doi.org/10.1101/2021.05.19.444882 (2021).
pavord, s. et al.
n. engl.
j. med.
https://doi.org/10.1056/nejmoa2109908 (2021).
nicolai, l. et al.
preprint at biorxiv https://doi.org/10.1101/2021.06.29.450356 (2021).
that week, nicolson was among the first to witness what researchers now call vaccine-induced immune thrombotic thrombocytopenia (vitt), a life-threatening and mysterious condition that affects a very small number of people who have received the oxford–astrazeneca or johnson & johnson (j&j) covid-19 vaccines.
it is now estimated that vitt occurred in about 1 in 50,000 people aged under 50 who received the oxford–astrazeneca vaccine1.
this and similar observations in other countries have led some officials to delay and then scale back the deployment of these vaccines.
marschalek thinks that if this idea is borne out, then the oxford–astrazeneca vaccine and other adenovirus-based vaccines could be rendered safer if their versions of spike were similarly engineered.
nature 596, 479-481 (2021)
thank you for visiting nature.com.
you are using a browser version with limited support for css.
to obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in internet explorer).
in the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles and javascript.
 nature (nature) issn 1476-4687 (online) issn 0028-0836 (print)
hit is caused by heparin, a negatively charged molecule, binding to a positively charged protein called platelet factor 4 (pf4) that is produced by platelets to promote clotting.
in some people, the immune system views this complex as foreign, and develops antibodies against it.
others think the culprit could be the adenovirus itself.
previous work has shown that adenoviruses can bind to platelets and trigger their depletion in mice7.
it’s conceivable that those mice might also have developed clots if they had been followed for longer, says maha othman, who studies blood clotting at queen’s university in kingston, canada, and was lead author of the study.
it’s possible, says nicolai, that on rare occasions, a vaccine is inadvertently injected into a vein — as was done in the earlier mouse studies that found that adenovirus could bind to platelets.
if so, many cases of vitt might be avoided by asking vaccinators to first draw a small amount of fluid from the injection site with the syringe to check for blood before they actually push the plunger to administer the vaccine.
this is already standard practice in some countries, and denmark has added it to its official guidelines for covid-19 vaccine administration.
a health worker administers the oxford–astrazeneca covid-19 vaccine in mexico city.
some countries have restricted its use.credit: leonardo montecillo/agencia press south/getty
one possible factor affecting the safety of adenoviral vaccines is how they are administered.
the covid-19 vaccines are given as injections into muscle, but if the needle happens to puncture a vein, the vaccine could enter the bloodstream directly.
leo nicolai, a cardiologist at ludwig maximilian university of munich, germany, and his colleagues found in a mouse study that platelets clump together with adenovirus and become activated when the oxford–astrazeneca vaccine is injected into blood vessels, but not when it is injected into muscle11.
huynh, a., kelton, j. g., arnold, d. m., daka, m. & nazy, i.
nature https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-021-03744-4 (2021).
research highlight 23 sep 21
noikongdee, p. et al.
preprint at medrxiv https://doi.org/10.1101/2021.07.15.21260622 (2021).
© 2021 springer nature limited
greinacher, a. et al.
preprint at research square https://doi.org/10.21203/rs.3.rs-440461/v1 (2021).
eventually, his team was able to get five samples taken from people before treatment for vitt.
when researchers characterized antibodies in the samples, they found that some were binding to pf4 at the same site as the one used by heparin, and that they were also capable of activating platelets5.
the results suggested that the mechanism behind the vaccine-linked syndrome was similar to that of hit — but the trigger seemed to be the vaccine rather than heparin.
only a handful of labs around the world study hit, and those that do scrambled to get samples from the few people who had been diagnosed with vitt.
when researchers analysed the samples, it was clear that vaccine recipients who had this mysterious clotting reaction were also producing antibodies against their own pf42–4.
but it was anyone’s guess as to what had triggered these antibodies.
kelton, who has been studying hit for decades, had to wait to get precious specimens from people with vitt, and then his team had to wade through samples of varying quality.
some were contaminated by treatments the people with vitt had received.
“many, many samples were not what i would call pristine,” he says.
“these people are as sick as can be, and the physicians throw the book at them.
they have every kind of chemical in them.” and about two-thirds of the samples his team received lacked the pf4 antibodies altogether, suggesting that the patients did not have vitt, but instead had developed a clotting disorder that was probably unrelated to their vaccination, kelton says.
working through these possibilities is a daunting task.
“you can have your hypothesis, but how do you find which is the one that caused an event in maybe 1 in 100,000 people?” asks john kelton, a haematologist at mcmaster university in hamilton, canada.
“it’s really, really hard.”
despite fervent work by researchers such as nicolson, the mechanism that links the vaccines and vitt is still uncertain.
establishing a mechanism could reveal ways to prevent and treat the condition, and improve the design of future vaccines.
over the past few months, researchers have gathered clues and developed a host of hypotheses.
better treatments are still needed for vitt, which according to a uk study1 killed 49 of the 220 people who were diagnosed with the condition between march and june 2021.
currently, doctors treat vitt by giving anti-clotting treatments other than heparin, and administering high doses of naturally occurring antibodies from blood-plasma donors.
the antibodies compete with the anti-pf4 antibodies for binding sites on platelets, and reduce the latter’s ability to promote blood coagulation.
“the hope is to try to confuse the body and hide the dangerous antibodies within a huge fog of normal antibodies,” says kelton.
“that’s a very, very blunt tool.”
but even if he were ready to launch a clinical trial of these therapies, there are few people in whom to test them.
since he saw the first cases in march, the united kingdom has changed its vaccination policy, and now recommends the oxford–astrazeneca vaccine only for people over 40.
vitt is more frequent in younger vaccine recipients, possibly because of their more-robust immune responses.
world view 23 sep 21
jülich, germany
pubmed  article  google scholar
news 24 sep 21
 covid vaccines and safety: what the research says
greinacher, a. et al.
blood https://doi.org/10.1182/blood.2021012938 (2021).
career q&a 01 oct 21
garching, germany
some researchers have proposed that impurities in the vaccines left over from the manufacturing process — such as snippets of dna floating around in the solution, or proteins in the broth used to grow the virus — are interacting with pf4 to generate the clumps that are then targeted by antibodies6.
helmholtz-zentrum dresden-rossendorf (hzdr)
why is it so hard to investigate the rare side effects of covid vaccines?
an essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
jülich research centre (fzj)
sign up for the nature briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
covid vaccines and safety: what the research says
yet in the space of one week in march, two young people with this pairing of symptoms had arrived at the queen elizabeth hospital in birmingham, uk, where nicolson works as a haematology specialist.
and both had recently been given the oxford–astrazeneca covid-19 vaccine.
 how could a covid vaccine cause blood clots?
scientists race to investigate
it is unclear whether other countries will have the same luxury of restricting oxford–astrazeneca vaccines to older people, given that it is relatively cheap and widely available compared with the mrna vaccines, for example.
until now, vitt has primarily been reported in europe and the united states, but researchers don’t yet know whether this reflects regional differences in susceptibility to vitt, or differences in reporting systems that gather data on potential vaccine side effects.
in thailand, for instance, researchers reported in july that there had been no cases of vitt after 1.7 million doses of the oxford–astrazeneca vaccine were given12.
 why is it so hard to investigate the rare side effects of covid vaccines?
before the covid-19 pandemic, adenovirus-based vaccines were being developed against infections such as hiv and ebola, but had not yet been used in large populations.
there have been no reports that these vaccines produced a vitt-like condition; however, they were not tested in nearly as many people as have received the oxford–astrazeneca covid-19 vaccine.
greinacher, a. et al.
n. engl.
j. med.
384, 2092–2101 (2021).
the unusual constellation of symptoms was immediately familiar to some haematologists, particularly those with experience of treating people with a rare reaction to the anti-clotting drug heparin.
that syndrome, called hit, is also characterized by low platelet counts and sometimes the presence of clots.
and the lower rate of clots in j&j’s vaccine compared with oxford–astrazeneca’s could be because the version of spike generated by the j&j vaccine was engineered to remove the sites that allow the rna to be processed into splice variants, says marschalek.
how could a covid vaccine cause blood clots?
scientists race to investigate
haematologist mitesh borad at the mayo clinic in phoenix, arizona, and his colleagues have analysed the structure of the chimpanzee adenovirus used in the oxford–astrazeneca vaccine and determined that it has a strong negative charge.
molecular simulations suggest that this charge, combined with aspects of the virus’s shape, could allow it to bind to the positively charged pf4 protein8.
if so, it could then set off a cascade much like the rare reaction to heparin, says borad, although it remains to be seen whether this happens.
news 17 sep 21
it was when the second person with unusual clots came in that phillip nicolson knew something was wrong.
blood clots are uncommon in young people, and it’s even rarer to see a combination of blood clots and alarmingly low levels of platelets — cell fragments that help to form clots.
nicolson says the number of people referred to his hospital with vitt has declined drastically: “we’re not seeing it any more, it’s almost stopped happening.”
something in the vaccine or the body’s response to it must be binding to pf4 — but what?
vitt has been linked to two covid-19 vaccines, both of which use disabled adenoviruses as a ‘vector’ to shuttle a gene encoding a coronavirus protein, called spike, into human cells.
once there, the gene is expressed and the protein is made.
the immune system detects spike and generates antibodies against it that are crucial for protection against coronavirus infection.
matters arising 22 sep 21
download references
 advanced search
schultz, n. h. et al.
n. engl.
j. med 384, 2124–2130 (2021).
but cancer researcher rolf marschalek at goethe university frankfurt in germany and his colleagues have shown that the snippets of rna that encode spike can be cut apart and stitched back together in different ways in human cells; some of these forms, called splice variants, can generate spike proteins that get into the blood and then bind to the surface of cells that line blood vessels10.
there, they cause an inflammatory response that is also seen in some sars-cov-2 infections, which in severely affected people can lead to the formation of clots.


==========https://www.wsj.com/articles/astrazeneca-breast-cancer-drug-found-to-reduce-risk-of-dying-11632146777===========
<<h1>>
404
<<p>>
wsj membership
dow jones products
customer service
tools & features
ads
more


==========https://www.dw.com/en/coronavirus-digest-astrazeneca-vaccine-still-safe-says-who/a-57023010===========
<<h1>>
coronavirus digest: astrazeneca vaccine 'still safe,' says who
<<p>>
the show by spanish rock group love of lesbian received special permission from spanish health authorities.
"the position stands that the benefits outweigh the risks," simao told a news conference on friday.
"a potential link to a very rare side-event...which would happen [to] one in a million, is still being investigated by who and also by the european medicines agency and other regulatory agencies."
permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3lboc
spain is to require people arriving by land from france to present a negative covid-19 test, the health ministry said on saturday, amid rising numbers of french visitors escaping their own lockdown.
the warning came just days after public furor led to strict easter curbs being abandoned by chancellor angela merkel's government.
german health officials warned on friday that the third wave of infections is likely going to be "harder to curb" than the previous two, in large part because of the more virulent and more easily transmitted b117 variant.
spahn also said that germany would likely begin administering the single-shot coronavirus vaccine developed by us manufacturer johnson & johnson starting in mid-april, giving germany's so-far slow vaccine roll-out a boost.
serbia has been inundated with thousands of vaccine-seekers from neighboring countries after officials offered free shots for foreigners if they showed up over the weekend.
permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3pmck
while the rest of the country was limited to gatherings of no more than four people in closed spaces, the concertgoers were able to mix freely, although face masks were mandatory.
measures to curb the pandemic in turkey were eased this month.
britain has so far administered at least a first dose of covid vaccine to more than 29 million adults, and the government plans to complete the phase by the end of july.
more than 180 million voters are eligible to cast their ballots in the polls till april 29 across the populous states of west bengal, kerala, assam and tamil nadu, as well as the federally administered territory of puducherry.
meanwhile, german health minister jens spahn said he thinks a lockdown lasting 10 to 14 days is necessary to get the country's ballooning coronavirus outbreak under control.
butantan is the largest vaccine producer in brazil and makes the coronavac shot produced by chinese firm sinovac.
he said ministers were expecting up to eight vaccines to be available by the autumn — up from two currently on offer in the uk — including one that could protect against three different covid variants in a single jab.
"if we take the figures, including the developments today, we actually need at least another 10 or 14 days in which we really shut down our contacts, our mobility," he said.
permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3r0mw
organizers said it was the first commercial event with an audience that big held in europe during the pandemic.
 © 2021 deutsche welle | privacy policy | legal notice | contact | mobile version
the new requirement will not apply to truck drivers and cross-border workers.
brazil has marked a new daily record with 3,650 deaths in 24 hours, the health ministry in brasilia said on friday.
the country's full death toll now stands at 307,112, with more than 12.4 million confirmed cases since the start of the pandemic.
the milestone comes as sao paolo's butantan institute announced the development of a "100% brazilian" vaccine.
the institute said it expects to start using the jab in july.
vaccines minister, nadhim zahawi, told the telegraph newspaper that the government could start delivering new booster doses in september for priority groups, including those aged over 70 and health workers.
take a look at the beta version of dw.com.
we're not done yet!
your opinion can help us make it better.
the astrazeneca vaccine is still safe and recommended for use, while studies continue to probe a potential link to its "very rare" side effects, including blood clots, said who assistant director-general, mariangela simao.
we use cookies to improve our service for you.
you can find more information in our data protection declaration.
"the virus is the enemy, not the government," presidential spokesman harry roque said, announcing the week-long measure which begins on monday.
india has proceeded with several state elections,  even as the country recorded over 62,000 new covid-19 cases in its biggest single-day spike in more than five months.
 send facebook twitter reddit email facebook messenger web whatsapp web telegram linkedin
in the spanish city of barcelona, 5,000 music lovers attended a rock concert on saturday after undergoing a covid test on the same day.
long lines of bosnians, montenegrins and north macedonians — often entire families — formed in front of the main vaccination center in the capital, belgrade, with police keeping watch.
maduro in january described carvativir, an oral solution derived from thyme, as a "miracle" medication that neutralizes coronavirus with no side effects.
doctors have said his claim is not backed by science.
lc/mm (ap, afp, reuters)
germany's association of intensive care doctors (divi) warned that the only way to avoid overwhelming hospitals is to enter a two-week hard lockdown.
the united states has administered nearly 137,000,000 doses of the covid vaccine and distributed over 177,000,000 doses so far, the us centers for disease control (cdc) and prevention has said.
turkey has recorded 30,021 new coronavirus cases in the space of 24 hours, the highest number this year, health ministry data showed on saturday.
a senior who official says the vaccine is still recommended for use, as studies probe a possible link to blood clots.
meanwhile, brazil has announced the development of its own shot.
but it remains on guard against more infectious coronavirus variants, such as ones that emerged in brazil and south africa.
anyone arriving by land from risk areas will have to present a negative pcr (polymerase chain reaction) test that was taken within 72 hours prior to their arrival.
researchers have said the benefits of the astrazeneca vaccine 'outweigh the risks'
even vaccinated individuals can be infected with covid-19.
but they usually only have mild symptoms, as the vaccines prevent severe or even life-threatening cases of the disease.
permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3rdyk
the total number of cases stood at 3,179,115 and the latest daily death toll was 151, bringing the cumulative toll to 30,923.
doctors without borders (msf) warned saturday that the number of critically ill covid-19 patients was rising across war-wracked yemen, urging assistance from donor countries and specialized groups.
the number of confirmed cases in germany has increased by 20,472, bringing the total to 2,755,225, data from the robert koch institute (rki) for infectious diseases showed on saturday.
meanwhile, the reported death toll rose by 157 to 75,780.
"medecins sans frontieres is seeing a dramatic influx of critically ill covid-19 patients requiring hospitalization in aden, yemen, and many other parts of the country," msf said.
last week, german researchers looked into how the vaccine could cause rare thrombosis in the brain in a small number of patients and found that targeted treatment can be offered to those who suffer similar clotting, using a common medication.
several countries including germany briefly suspended the use of the vaccine over clotting concerns.
in venezuela, facebook has frozen president nicolas maduro's page for violating policies against spreading misinformation about the virus by promoting a remedy he claims, without evidence, can cure the disease, a company spokesman said.
rki chief lothar wieler called on germans to reduce their social contacts over the easter holiday.
meanwhile, former cdc director robert redfield said he believes that the virus likely escaped from a lab in wuhan, china.
the theory has been rejected by many global epidemiologists and has contributed to tensions between china and the us.
the philippines has ordered more than 24 million people in and around manila into a coronavirus lockdown, as hospitals in the capital struggle to cope with a surge in infections.


==========https://www.astrazeneca-us.com/media.html===========
<<h1>>
media center
<<p>>
find out more about how we use cookies and how to manage them by reading our cookie notice.
astrazeneca provides this link as a service to website visitors.
astrazeneca is not responsible for the privacy policy of any third party websites.
we encourage you to read the privacy policy of every website you visit.
by using this website you consent to our use of these cookies.
you are now leaving astrazeneca-us.com
astrazeneca's global website is intended for people seeking information on astrazeneca's worldwide business.
click the 'global site' link for the directory of country sites.
view information on astrazeneca products, including their current us prescribing information.
view investor information, financial results, annual reports, and other useful information for shareholders on our global site.
the telephone number below is for journalists or people with media related questions only.
general or marketing inquiries will not be answered.
these press releases were issued in the united states (us) and are posted here as reference information for us investors and journalists only.
the information contained in each press release was accurate at the time of issuance, and astrazeneca assumes no responsibility for updating the information to reflect subsequent developments.
it is against astrazeneca policy to provide a list of our vendors to members of the media.
you have selected a link that will take you to a site maintained by a third party who is solely responsible for its contents.
important notice for users you are about to access astrazeneca historic archive material.
any reference in these archives to astrazeneca products or their uses may not reflect current medical knowledge and should not be used as a source of information on the present product label, efficacy data or safety data.
please refer to your approved national product label (smpc) for current product information.
i have read this warning and will not be using any of the contained product information for clinical purposes.
click ‘cancel’ to return to astrazeneca’s site or ‘continue’ to proceed.
this website uses cookies to help us give you the best experience when you visit.
©2021 astrazeneca
astrazeneca is responding to the covid-19 (novel coronavirus) outbreak, consistent with our values to follow the science, put patients first and do the right thing.
our priorities are to ensure the continued supply of our medicines to patients, and to safeguard the health and wellbeing of all our employees and communities.
please note:


==========https://www.who.int/news/item/07-04-2021-interim-statement-of-the-covid-19-subcommittee-of-the-who-global-advisory-committee-on-vaccine-safety===========
<<h1>>
interim statement of the covid-19 subcommittee of the who global advisory committee on vaccine safety on astrazeneca covid-19 vaccine
<<p>>
who is carefully monitoring the rollout of all covid-19 vaccines and will continue to work closely with countries to manage potential risks, and to use science and data to drive response and recommendations.
news
media contacts
feature stories
 who media inquiries
in extensive vaccination campaigns, it is normal for countries to identify potential adverse events following immunization.
this does not necessarily mean that the events are linked to vaccination itself, but they must be investigated to ensure that any safety concerns are addressed quickly.
vaccines, like all medicines, can have side effects.
the administration of vaccines is based on a risk versus benefit analysis.
the covid-19 subcommittee of the who global advisory committee on vaccine safety (gacvs) has reviewed reports of rare cases of blood clots with low platelets following vaccination with the astrazeneca covid-19 vaccine (including covishield) since their onset a few weeks ago.
at its most recent meeting on 7 april, 2021, the subcommittee reviewed latest information from the european medicines agency along with information from the united kingdom’s medicines and other health products regulatory agency (mhra), and other member states and noted the following:
commentaries
subscribe to our newsletters →


==========https://www.health.gov.au/initiatives-and-programs/covid-19-vaccines/approved-vaccines/astrazeneca===========
<<h1>>
 vaxzevria (astrazeneca)
<<p>>
the chart shows potential harms and benefits for 7 age bands in a scenario with an infection rate similar to the second wave of covid-19 in victoria (275 infections per 100,000 people in a 16-week period).
if you are aged 18 to 59, you can choose to get protected with the astrazeneca vaccine:
the australian technical advisory group on immunisation (atagi) recommends the astrazeneca vaccine for people:
this collection contains resources for patients receiving a covid-19 vaccination.
© commonwealth of australia | department of health
the tga provisionally approved it for use in australia on 15 february 2021.
symptoms of tts most commonly develop 4 to 42 days after vaccination.
see a doctor immediately if you develop any of the following symptoms:
the chart below shows the risks and benefits of the astrazeneca vaccine in a medium-risk scenario similar to victoria's second wave.
the current situation in nsw and victoria is worse than this, so the benefits of vaccination are even greater than this chart shows.
you may not be fully protected against covid-19 until 7 to 14 days after your second dose.
most side effects are mild and go away within 1 to 2 days.
they are more common after the first dose of the astrazeneca vaccine.
covid-19 vaccination – patient resources
the risk of dying from tts after a first dose of astrazeneca is less than 1 in a million.
the risk of dying if you catch covid-19 is 42,000 in a million.
we have printable fact sheets on tts for:
in australia, the risk of developing tts after a first dose of astrazeneca is around 20 in a million.
atagi has recommended some people not be vaccinated with the astrazeneca vaccine.
contraindications to astrazeneca are:
vaxzevria (astrazeneca) is approved for use in people aged 18 years and over.
the benefits outweigh the harms in every age group, and the benefits increase with age.
the astrazeneca vaccine uses a harmless, weakened animal virus (called a viral vector) that contains the genetic code for the coronavirus spike protein.
once this enters the body, it tells your cells to make copies of the spike protein.
your immune cells then recognise the spike protein as a threat and begin building an immune response against it.
you can still get vaccinated with astrazeneca if you have a:
is there anything wrong with this page?
coronavirus (covid-19) health alert
most people have their second dose 12 weeks after their first, but it can be less time in certain situations.
the astrazeneca vaccine does not contain any live virus, and it cannot give you covid-19.
we are always looking for ways to improve our website.
atagi recommends that in outbreak areas, everyone aged 18 years and above should strongly consider getting vaccinated with any available vaccine, including astrazeneca.
the melbourne vaccine education centre has a page on tts that includes an explanatory video.
the delta variant has changed the risk/benefit profile of vaccination with astrazeneca.
you can read the full vaxzevria consumer medicine information document on the tga site for more details (click 'i accept' to see the pdf).
1 in a million is really rare.
see how it compares.
you are more likely to be struck by lightning or die from taking daily aspirin than to die from tts after vaccination with astrazeneca.
people who have had their first dose of the astrazeneca vaccine without any serious adverse effects should have the second dose to gain full protection.
this includes people under 60 years old.
in rare cases, people may develop a specific type of blood clots after their first dose of the astrazeneca vaccine.
this is called thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome (tts).
 information in your language
atagi have also advised that people with a history of one of the following specific blood conditions should not receive the astrazeneca vaccine:
our patient resources include fact sheets about the astrazeneca vaccine and what to expect after your shot.
read more in our fact sheet information on covid-19 astrazeneca vaccine.
if you would like a response please use the enquiries form instead.
find a clinic and book
 find out more about the astrazeneca vaccine, including how it works, who it's recommended for and advice about potential side effects.
the department of health acknowledges the traditional owners of country throughout australia, and their continuing connection to land, sea and community.
we pay our respects to them and their cultures, and to elders both past and present.
as with any vaccine, you may have some temporary side effects after receiving the astrazeneca vaccine.
this shows your immune system is working.
common side effects after the astrazeneca vaccine include:
atagi recommends a shorter interval of 4 to 8 weeks between the first and second doses in an outbreak so that maximal protection against covid-19 can be achieved earlier.
you need 2 doses of the astrazeneca vaccine, given 4 to 12 weeks apart.
tts can be treated very effectively and most people recover.
pregnant women are offered pfizer or moderna as first choice, but can take astrazeneca if the benefits outweigh the risks in their particular case.
tts involves blood clots (thrombosis) together with low levels of blood platelets (thrombocytopenia).
it is different from more common types of blood clots.
in a large outbreak, atagi advises that the benefits of the astrazeneca vaccine are greater than the risk of rare side effects for all age groups.


==========https://www.linkedin.com/company/astrazeneca===========
<<h1>>
<<p>>


